# Supervised Machine Learning Models
Supervised ML algorithms are designed to learn from labeled data and use that knowledge to make predictions or classify new data points. In the case of classification problems, the algorithm learns to assign input data to one of several pre-defined classes. For regression problems, the algorithm learns to predict a continuous numerical value. 

# Accuracy of regression models
In previous weeks, we have used R-squared (R-squared) as the metric for the accuracy of our regression models. However, there are other ways that we can understand the accuracy of our regression algorithms and these techniques include Mean Squared Error (L2 Loss), Mean Absolute Error (L1 Loss). To determine the accuracy of my regression model, it is a good idea to collect those metrics and understand their differences as they can give us valuable feedback about our model.

## Accuracy of classification models
As with regression metrics, there are several strategies to determine the accuracy of classification models including Accuracy, Precision, Recall, Specificity, and F1 Score. All of these accuracy metrics use confusion metrics which is a 2x2 table that summarizes the predicted and actual class labels for a set of instances in a classification problem. Accuracy, Precision, Recall, Specificity are all different ways of how to use confusion matrix. For example, accuracy is computed as (number of correct predictions) / (total number of predictions) while precision is computed as (true positives) / (true positives + false positives) and recall is computed as (true positives) / (true positives + false negatives). Probably the best way to determine the accuracy of our classification model is to compute the F1 score which is the harmonic mean of precision and recall and provides a balanced measure of both of these metrics computed from the confusion metric. There are also different reasons why we would want to use precision or recall as they are used for different purposes. One final note would be to understand the distribution of our dataset – is our data balanced or not impacts which accuracy measure we should use to determine the accuracy of our supervised machine learning classification model. 
